
Questions that got me thinking:


Q: 
What are your current hypotheses about your topic?

A:
Alright, this is a hard one. Of course I can't be for sure where the future will lead, but I do have some ideas.

	Livestreaming for one is proving to be a very interesting phenomenon. In its current state, it's primarily used for people to broadcast themselves playing video games as well as being used for pornography. Either way, it's a hugely democratized platform for entertainment. I'd argue it's even more democratized than simply uploading prerecorded video content. In the latter space, we have the champ, YouTube, followed by Vimeo, Facebook, IGTV, Reddit, and LiveLeak. NONE of the last five can even begin to compete with the giant that is YouTube. However, in the streaming space there's more equally shared power between Twitch, Mixer, YTLive, FBLive, and IGLive, with each serving its own purpose. The greatest innovator in this space though is Mixer. Most on Mixer are still just streaming gameplay, but the site has made itself very friendly to any kind of streamable (and non-pornographic) content. On Mixer you can find anything from cooking shows to live musicians to tarot card readings, and I feel this is only going to expand across platforms as Mixer continues to gain traction on the current largest platform, Twitch. Through this though I think we're seeing the birth of a new Public Access TV. Anyone can broadcast themselves doing anything they want, interact with their audience in the middle of the broadcast, AND its proven to be something that is quite lucrative. Esports pop icon Ninja (Tyler Blevins) is only in his late 20s and rumored to be raking in as much as $18 million a year from the brand he built as a dorky kid playing Fortnite on Twitch. I'm betting anything we'll see more of this.
    
    Social media as performance art (ie Trolling). As crazy as this seems, I honestly think trolling is going to get recognized as performance art at some point. At least some performance artist is going to recognize this at some point and make a point of calling attention to it. It's extremely easy to lie on the internet, and even easier to get people to believe you. We've seen so much of this already that it feels almost silly to argue it. One thing we see more and more though are people, even those who are already very successful, lying to their audience for clout. Vlogging titan Team10 houses all of their team in an incredible Hollywood manison living in the lap of luxury, despite bleeding every one of them dry in their contracts. It's all to sell their brand of being young and living their dream life in LA. Pranks or "Social Experiments" have gotten huge in the video space as well. Sam Pepper is a great example here. Back in 2017 he uploaded a video to YT where he pranks his friend by kidnapping him, tying him up, and convincing him that he's going to be killed on camera. The video went viral of course, and it didn't take long for the internet to become outraged at how heinous this was. Later on we find out that the whole thing was staged. We got mad for nothing, and even after deleting the video Sam Pepper made off with a boatload of cash and even more clout. I've found very little existing evidence of this being pulled off as real performance art yet, but one example gives me hope. Alantutorial is a video performance created by Baltimore comedian and legendary adult swim collaborator Alan Resnick. The performance is a 65 part video series released over the course of three years. In it, Alan acts as a faceless, severely autistic young man obsessed with the recent How To craze on youtube a few years back when people were releasing tutorials like crazy. I won't reveal too much, but the series gets very very dark. Many at the time were even convinced it was real. Though never explicitly stating, it was eventually revealed that Resnick was behind the charade, and the whole thing was a metaphor for YouTube fame and his worry that it would corrupt young people to ruin themselves for vanity. If anything though, alantutorial gives me hope that social media will only be utilized more and more as a platform for performance art.
    
    Like I've told you before, I genuinely believe that experience is something that will be valued more and more. This is in part due to what I said about Gen Z missing organic human experience lost to the age of information, but vanity is another very strong drive. Social media makes it nearly impossible to not experience FOMO. Every day its so easy to watch people your age who are more beautiful than you and more wealthy than you post pics and videos of them and their incredible friends doing amazing things and living wonderful, fulfilling lives. Influencers sell you FOMO. That's their job, and as a result we're hooked. Noboby wants to feel like they're wasting their time or they're being left out. I think experiential art will be made more valuable because of this things. Look at the popularity of Yayoi Kusama's infifity rooms. I guarantee most members of Gen Z have seen one of these online, and almost none of them even know her name. 
    
    One more quick thing is I wonder if what art movements past vaporwave will be like. Scenes like vaporwave and seapunk are exciting because they were born wholly from the internet. There was no vaporwave subculture that met in dark basements around the world to listen to the new Death's Dynamic Shroud.wmv EP. The whole culture was synthesized on the web. I'm excited to see where cultures like that go. I'm even more excited to see the first one to pop up that *only* references web culture, rather than what we have now, which while being new, still references culture of the  80s & 90s.
    
    This are just a few answers I've thought about that are a little more non-obvious. I think we can all see how software changed the way art is made, and social media changed the way art is distributed. What's more exciting though are more detailed thinking about this.
